TF- Running in production (#2094)
saucelabs/sauce-docs: docs/test-fairy/sdk/tf-production.md

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

Running TestFairy in production offers numerous benefits, such as gaining valuable insights into user behavior, detecting and resolving issues promptly, and continuously improving your app's performance. With TestFairy, you can proactively monitor your production environment, gather valuable data, and make informed decisions to deliver a superior app to your users.

## Running TestFairy in Production

> When running TestFairy in production, you may record sensitive data such as medical information, financial data or photos.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When running TestFairy in production, you may record sensitive data such as medical information, financial data, or photos.
```

Therefore it is important to follow these guidelines:

> 1. On iOS, you **must** request explicit user consent before recording start.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. On iOS, you **must** request explicit user consent before recording starts.
```

> Please read carefully the [Apple guidelines](https://developer.apple.com/app-store/review/guidelines/) and pay special attention to section 2.5.14

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Read carefully the [Apple guidelines](https://developer.apple.com/app-store/review/guidelines/) and pay special attention to section 2.5.14
```

> 1. On Android, please call disableAutoUpdate() in order to comply with [Play Store Developer Distribution Agreement](https://play.google.com/about/developer-distribution-agreement.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. On Android, call `disableAutoUpdate()` to comply with [Play Store Developer Distribution Agreement](https://play.google.com/about/developer-distribution-agreement.html).
```

> 2. When recording sensitive data you **must** use TestFairy's [end-to-end encryption](/Security/End_to_End_Data_Encryption.html) with your own private keys, so that only your team will be able to see your sessions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. When recording sensitive data, you **must** use TestFairy's [end-to-end encryption](https://docs.testfairy.com/Security/End_to_End_Data_Encryption.html) with your private keys so that only your team can see your sessions.
```

> 3. You **must** [hide sensitive data](/SDK/Hiding_Sensitive_Data.html) such as credit card numbers, passwords, or other PII, so that this info will not be uploaded to the server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. You **must** [hide sensitive data](https://docs.testfairy.com/Security/Hiding_Sensitive_Data.html) such as credit card numbers, passwords, or other PII, so that this info is not uploaded to the server.
```

> 4. In case you are using TestFairy for customer support to better understand your users in case of a technical issue,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. In case you are using TestFairy for customer support better to understand your users in case of a technical issue,
```

> it is recomended to add a button to your app menu (call it "advanced support"?) and have that button call `TestFairy.begin()`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
it is recommended to add a button to your app menu (call it "advanced support"?) and have that button call `TestFairy.begin()`.
```

> Before calling `begin()` ask the user if this is ok to record their screen for quality assurance purposes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before calling `begin()`, ask the user if this is ok to record their screen for quality assurance purposes.
```

> When doing that, make sure that session duration is set to 2-3 minutes, just enough to identify the cause of a problem.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When doing that, make sure that the session duration is set to 2-3 minutes, just enough to identify the cause of the problem.
```

1. You **must** include a proper disclaimer in your app terms of service document.

> You must explain exactly what data you collect, and how to request deletion of that data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You must explain strictly what data you collect and how to request deletion of that data.
```

> 1. Please make sure never to use TestFairy Auto-update with apps that are shipped to production. This is a clear violation of both Apple and Google's terms.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Make sure never to use TestFairy Auto-update with apps that are shipped to production. This is a clear violation of both Apple and Google's terms.
```

## Disabling Test Fairy in Production 

> When it comes to using TestFairy in a production environment, there may be instances where you need to disable TestFairy's functionality temporarily or permanently. Disabling TestFairy in production can be necessary for a variety of reasons, such as complying with platform guidelines or eliminating potential performance impacts.. The SDK is very modular and is built to handle the your and your company's needs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When it comes to using TestFairy in a production environment, there may be instances where you need to disable TestFairy's functionality temporarily or permanently. Disabling TestFairy in production can be necessary for various reasons, such as complying with platform guidelines or eliminating potential performance impacts... The SDK is very modular and is built to handle your and your company's needs.
```

### iOS 

#### Option 1: Calling [TestFairy begin] only in DEBUG

> Without a call to [TestFairy begin], the SDK is not initialized. An uninitialized SDK won't consume any memory, won't open sockets, and won't catch uncaught exceptions. Even though it does not impact your app in any way, the SDK is still linked with your app. This is the easiest option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Without a call to [TestFairy begin], the SDK is not initialized. An uninitialized SDK won't consume any memory, won't open sockets, or catch uncaught exceptions. Even though it does not impact your app in any way, the SDK is still linked to your app. This is the easiest option.
```

##### Objective-C
```
#ifdef DEBUG
[TestFairy begin:@"APP_TOKEN"];
#endif
```

##### Swift
```
#if DEBUG
TestFairy.begin("APP_TOKEN")
#endif
```

> If your publishing workflow has multiple build schemes or you plan to implement such phases, please proceed to [this post](https://blog.testfairy.com/ios-build-schemes-explained/) to learn how to do that.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your publishing workflow has multiple build schemes or you plan to implement such phases, proceed to [this post](https://blog.testfairy.com/ios-build-schemes-explained/) to learn how to do that.
```

> We suggest defining a compiler flag for each scheme you have to enable the SDK for schemes relevant to testing like below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We suggest defining a compiler flag for each scheme you have to enable the SDK for schemes relevant to testing, like the one below.
```

##### Objective-C
```
#if defined(DEBUG)
[TestFairy begin:@"APP_TOKEN"];
#elif defined(SCHEME1)
[TestFairy begin:@"APP_TOKEN"];
#elif defined(SCHEME2)
[TestFairy begin:@"APP_TOKEN"];
#else
// Don't initialize the SDK
#endif
```

##### Swift
```
#if DEBUG
TestFairy.begin("APP_TOKEN")
#elseif SCHEME1
TestFairy.begin("APP_TOKEN")
#elseif SCHEME2
TestFairy.begin("APP_TOKEN")
#else
// Don't initialize the SDK
#endif
```

If you are also worried about reducing the app size in your final release build, proceed to Option 2.

#### Option 2: Configure link options in a scheme for App Store

> A common pattern we see from our customers is having a dedicated scheme for App Store. Meaning there's a Debug, Release and App Store (and maybe others.)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A typical pattern we see from our customers is having a dedicated scheme for App Store. There's a Debug, Release, and App Store (and maybe others.)
```

> The link phases that are explained in the integration document only apply to Debug and Release schemes, and can be excluded from the App Store scheme.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The link phases that are explained in the integration document only apply to Debug and Release schemes and can be excluded from the App Store scheme.
```

> This solution still requires use of `#ifdef` or `#if` as before, but can also completely omit the library from being linked with the app.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This solution still requires the use of `#ifdef` or `#if` as before but can also completely omit the library from being linked with the app.
```

Navigate to project build settings and locate **Excluded Source File Name** option. Expand the list and find the build scheme you want to exclude TestFairy from. Double click the row add two entries to the excluded file list, one for **TestFairy.h**, one for **libTestFairy.a** files.

Try building your project. If the compilation fails, locate the lines where TestFairy is used and wrap them with `#ifdef` or `#if` directives explained in Option 1.

<a name="ios-noop"></a>
### Option 3: No-op SDK

> Similar to Option #2, you're required to have multiple schemes in your project, but **does not** require the use of `#ifdef` or `#if`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Similar to Option #2, you must have multiple schemes in your project, but **does not** require the use of `#ifdef` or `#if`.
```

> 1. Download the [TestFairy iOS No-Op SDK](https://github.com/testfairy/testfairy-ios-sdk-noop)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Download the [TestFairy iOS No-Op SDK](https://github.com/testfairy/testfairy-ios-sdk-noop).
```

> 2. Add `TestFairy.m` to your project's *Production* or *App Store* scheme. (Note, that the `.m` file needs to be put in a place where it can find the `TestFairy.h` file).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Add `TestFairy.m` to your project's *Production* or *App Store* scheme. (Note that the `.m` file needs to be placed where it can find the `TestFairy.h` file).
```

> 3. Navigate to project build settings and locate **Excluded Source File Name** option. Expand the list and find the build scheme you want to exclude TestFairy from. Double click the row add an entry to the excluded file list for the **libTestFairy.a** file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Navigate to project build settings and locate the **Excluded Source File Name** option. Expand the list and find the build scheme from which you want to exclude TestFairy. Double-click the row and add an entry to the excluded file list for the **libTestFairy.a** file.
```

> This will allow you to keep all your calls to `TestFairy` as-is, but replaced with empty implementations. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This allows you to keep all your calls to `TestFairy` as-is but replace them with empty implementations. 
```

### Android 

#### Option 1: Calling TestFairy.begin() only in Debug mode.

Your Gradle variants can alter the code path of your app. Use debug flavor to call `TestFairy.begin()`, and release flavor to emit this call.

If you are not used to working with build variants, refer to [this post](https://blog.testfairy.com/create-a-custom-build-in-android/) the learn how.

> In order for ProGuard to fully crop the TestFairy SDK from the final binary, you may use a wrapper class that differs in each of your flavors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For ProGuard to fully crop the TestFairy SDK from the final binary, you may use a wrapper class that differs in each of your flavors.
```

> * Create a new Java folder for your **release** variant.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create a new Java folder for your **release** variant.
```

> * Create a Java class somewhere in the shared (main) variant.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create a Java class somewhere in the shared (main) variant.
```

> * Create the same package structure and Java class in the **release** variant as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create the same package structure and Java class in the **release** variant.
```

> * Put the code below into the Java class under **main/java**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Put the code below into the Java class under **main/java**.
```

```
public class TestFairyWrapper {
  public static void begin(Activity activity, String apikey) {
    TestFairy.begin(activity, apikey);
  }
}
```

> * Put the code below into the Java class under **release/java**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Put the code below into the Java class under **release/java**.
```

```
public class TestFairyWrapper {
  public static void begin(Activity activity, String apikey) {
    // Do nothing
  }
}
```

> * Call `TestFairyWrapper.begin()` in your main activity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Call `TestFairyWrapper.begin()` in your main activity.
```

> Without any calls to any of the TestFairy SDK, Proguard will eventually remove the entire compiled code from the result `classes.dex` and the final APK.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Without any calls to the TestFairy SDK, Proguard will eventually remove the compiled code from the result `classes.dex` and the final APK.
```

#### Option 2: Use a class loader

> Android allows loading classes into memory on-the-fly. This is for advanced developers. You can use Java reflections to load TestFairy class into memory only on a Debug build.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Android allows loading classes into memory on-the-fly. This is for advanced developers. Java reflections can load TestFairy class into memory only on a Debug build.
```

Replace the code where you call `TestFairy.begin()` with the code below.

```
try {
    Class cls = Class.forName("com.testfairy.TestFairy");
    Method method = cls.getMethod("begin", android.content.Context.class, String.class);
    method.invoke(cls, this, "SDK-XXXXXXX");
} catch (Exception e) { /* ignore */ }
```

> Then, in your `build.gradle` file, change the SDK dependency with `debugImplementation 'testfairy:testfairy-android-sdk:1.+@aar'` or any other version of your choosing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then, in your `build.gradle` file, change the SDK dependency with `debugImplementation 'testfairy:testfairy-android-sdk:1.+@aar'` or any other version you choose.
```
